#+SETUPFILE: ~/.emacs.d/src/org-templates/level-2.org
#+TITLE: 802.11ax
#+OPTIONS: num:nil H:2



* 802.11ax Frame Aggregation Enhancements
[[./Files/aggregateMpdu.png]]

Prior to 802.11ax, the individual MPDUs must all be of the same
802.11e QoS access category when A-MPDU frame aggregation is used.
Voice MPDUs cannot be mixed with Best Effort or Video MPDUs within the
same aggregated frame. 80211ax introduces *Multi-Traffic Identifier
Aggregated MAC Protocol Data Unit (Multi-TID AMPDU)*, which allows the
aggregation of frames from multiple traffic identifiers (TIDs), from
the same or different QoS access categories. The ability to mix MPDUs
of different QoS traffic classes allows 802.11ax radios to aggregate
more efficiently, reducing overhead and thus increasing throughput and
therefore overall network efficiency.






* Medium Contention
The AP still has to compete against legacy 802.11 stations for a
*transmission opportunity (TXOP)*. Once the AP has a TXOP, the AP is
then in control of up to nine 802.11ax client stations for either
downlink or uplink transmissions on a 20 MHz channel. The number of
RUs used can vary on a per TXOP basis. For the uplink (UL-OFDMA), the
AP signals to the clients a synchronized schedule and RU allotment
using a *trigger frame*. 

The 802.11ax draft proposes an *operating mode indication (OMI)*
procedure for this purpose. A client station can signal to the AP, the
maximum number of spatial streams and the maximum channel bandwidth
that the client can support for either uplink or downlink
transmission. As shown in Figure 2, an 802.1ax client uses the OM
Control subfield in 802.11 data and management frames to indicate a
change of either transmission or receiver mode of operation. For
example, a client can switch between single-user or multi-user
UL-OFDMA operations. A client can suspend and resume responses to the
trigger frames sent by an AP during the UL-OFDMA process.

[[./Files/omi.png]]

* BSS Color 

* 11ax resource units(RU)
subcarrier spacing = 78.125kHz
20M/78.125=256 subcarriers

有效的就是242 subcarrier.

subdividing a 20 MHz channel, an 802.11ax access point can designate
26, 52, 106, and 242 subcarrier resource units (RUs), which equates
roughly to 2 MHz, 4 MHz, 8 MHz, and 20 MHz channels.




* cc
#+begin_src sh

#+end_src

#+begin_src python

#+end_src

#+begin_src c++

#+end_src

#+BEGIN_EXAMPLE

#+END_EXAMPLE

#+begin_html

#+BEGIN_QUOTE
#+END_QUOTE


#+BEGIN_VERSE
#+END_VERSE

#+end_html

